---
layout: "post"
title: "Blog 10"
date: 2020-11-13 00:00:00 -0000
categories: blogs
permalink: /:categories/:month/:day/:year/:title.html
---
## How to Self-Sign Your Own SSL Certificate Onto Your Web Server and Configure It With Chrome

# Prerequisites
These steps should have been completed already:
* Launched a web server via Apache
* Opened port 80 and 443

# Create the SSL Certificate
1. Update any packages.

        $ sudo apt-get -y update

2. Check if you have `openssl` installed.

        $ sudo openssl version

3. If not, install `openssl`.

        $ sudo apt-get -y install openssl

4. Verify installation.

        $ sudo openssl version

5. Enable mod_ssl.

        $sudo a2enmod ssl

6. Restart Apache.

        $sudo service apache2 restart

7. Create a `.conf` file and add the following to your needs:

        [req]                                                         //leave same
        distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name                   //leave same
        x509_extensions = v3_req                                      //leave same
        prompt = no                                                   //leave same
        [req_distinguished_name]                                      //leave same
        C = US
        ST = VA
        L = SomeCity
        O = MyCompany
        OU = MyDivision
        CN = www.company.com
        [v3_req]                                                      //leave same
        keyUsage = critical, digitalSignature, keyAgreement           //leave same
        extendedKeyUsage = serverAuth                                 //leave same
        subjectAltName = @alt_names                                   //leave same
        [alt_names]                                                   //leave same
        DNS.1 = www.company.com
        DNS.2 = company.com                                           //rm if need
        DNS.3 = company.net                                           //rm if need
        IP.1 = ip here                                                //rm if need
        IP.2 = ip here                                                //rm if need

7. Create the certificate. You may change the name of `file.key` and `file.crt`.

        $ sudo openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout /path/to/directory/file.key -out /path/to/directory/file.crt -config file.conf

    > **openssl:** openssl command
    >
    > **req -x509:** specifies X.509 as the public key for the certificate signing request which is the standard for SSL and TSL
    >
    > **-nodes:** skips entering a password for the certificate
    >
    > **days 365:** specifies how many days the certificate is valid for
    >
    > **-newkey rsa:2048:** generates an RSA key along with the certificate
    >
    > **-keyout:** specifies location of key 
    >
    > **-out:** specifies location of certificate

8. Create a `.p12` file. This will be configured with your (Chrome) browser later.

        $ openssl pkcs12 -export -out file.p12 -inkey file.key -in file.crt

9. Edit apache `000-default.conf` file.

        $ sudo vim /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf

10. Add the following to your needs.

        <VirtualHost *:80>
                ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
                Redirect / https://yoursitehere.com
        </VirtualHost>
        <VirtualHost _default_:443>
                ServerName domain-name
                DocumentRoot /path/to/web/server

                SSLEngine on
                SSLCertificateFile /path/to/file.crt
                SSLCertificateKeyFile /path/to/file.key
        </VirtualHost>

11. Restart Apache.

        $ sudo service apache2 restart

# Configure Certificate With Chrome
1. In Chrome, open **Settings** >  **Security** > **Manage Certificates**.

2. Click **Import**.

3. Click **Next**.

4. Click **Browse**.

5. Navigate to the location of the `.p12` file.

6. **Open** the file.

7. Click **Next**.

8. Click **Next**.

9. Select **Place all certificates in the following store."

10. Click **Browse**.

11. Select **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**.

12. Click **OK.**

13. Click **Next**.

14. Click **Finish**.

15. Click **Yes**. Close the following window.

16. Restart Chrome.

Your browser has now successfully trusted your certificate on your web server.