---
layout: "post"
title: "Blog 3"
date: 2020-09-25 19:52:06 -0000
categories: blogs
permalink: /:categories/:month/:day/:year/:title.html
---
i started watching a couple videos about AWS and they introduced me with new concepts.  cloud computing provides delivery of databases, storage, applications, and more through the internet with a pay-as-you-go service.  infrastructure as a service gives you more control over IT resources than other services such as platform as a service and software as a service.  through IaaS, infrasctruture, while normally  thought of as hardware, is now thought of as software.  with hardware solution,  you need to take into consideration if there's enough storage to meet your needs which keeps you guessing.  if your needs change, you will have to spend even more time, effort, and money to adapt to these changes.  with cloud computing,  solutions are flexible.  there are services that best match your needs, so you only have to pay for what you use. automations can also be used for your needs, so solutions will be done easily and cost-effectively.

another video covered six advantages of using the cloud.  one: investing in a data center means you must pay for the full amount, whether you make use of it in its entirety or not.  with cloud computing, as stated before, you only pay for what you use, saving costs.  two: you benefit from "massive economies of scale," meaning you get a lower variable cost than if you get it on your own.  this also means lower prices.  three: dynamic storage capacity means no longer having to guess how much storage you need.  four: it's much quicker and cheaper to use the cloud than a data center, as IT resources are only a click away, meaning much lower wait times. five: cloud computing allows you to focus on your business and companies  instead of the infrastructure, meaning less money and time spent running and thinking about it.  six: you can release your application almost immediately with a few simple clicks.  being able to do so in multiple regions means lower latency and an overall better experience for the customers.