---
layout: "post"
title: "Blog 6"
date: 2020-10-16 00:00:00 -0000
categories: blogs
permalink: /:categories/:month/:day/:year/:title.html
---
i just completed lab 1 of AWS cloud security which consisted of applying permissions to different users and logging into each of the users to test the permissions.  everything went smoothly and according to the instructions, which is different to what usually happens with me in labs where something somehow goes wrong.

some things i learned in module 4 that i didn't know before was the shared responsibility model. it's probably obvious that something like this would work this way, but the way they present this information makes it seem that much more important. it outlines the key responsibilities that both the customer and AWS have to making effective use of the product.  they do not share the same tasks; they are different and separate.  according to the webpage, "AWS is responsible for protecting the infrastructure that runs all of the services offered in the AWS cloud. This infrastructure is composed of the hardware, software, networking, and facilities that run AWS cloud services."

meanwhile, the customer's responsibility is determined based on the services that they select. it determines how much configuration work they have to put it on their own. choosing the Amazon EC2 services means that the client has to perform all the necessary security configurations and management tasks including update and patching the operating system, any software being utilized on the instance, and the firewall. for databases like Amazon S3 and Amazon Dynamo, AWS handles platforms, the operating system, and the like, while customers just store and retrieve data, encrypt them, and applying permissions to users and groups. 