---
layout: "post"
title: "Blog 12"
date: 2020-12-03 00:00:00 -0000
categories: blogs
permalink: /:categories/:month/:day/:year/:title.html
---
## How to Install and Use Terraform to Launch EC2 Instances in AWS Ubuntu 20.04

# Installing Terraform
1. Update and upgrade if necessary.

        $ sudo apt-get -y update && sudo apt-get upgrade

2. Add the HashiCorp GPG key.

        $ curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

3. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository.

        $ sudo apt-add-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main"

4. Install Terraform.

        $ sudo apt-get -y install terraform

5. Verify installation.

        $ terraform version

# Initializing the directory
1. Make a new directory.

        $ mkdir test

2. Change into the directory.

        $ cd test

3. Initialize the directory.

        $ terraform init

# Creating the main file
Because I'm not sure how to reference other modules, the configuration will be in one file.

1. Create a file with a `.tf` extension. This will be the main file.

        $ touch main.tf

2. Open via a text editor.

        $ vim main.tf

3. Create a provider block. You will need to add your access key and secret key.  You can find this at **IAM > Users > Security credentials > Access keys**.  If you don't have any access keys, click **Create access key**. You may change the values of `profile` and `region` to fit your needs.

        provider "aws" {
            access_key = "your-access-key-here"
            secret_key = "your-secret-key-here"
            profile = "default"
            region = "us-east-1"
        }
 
4. Exit the file. We will come back to this later.

# Creating a key
1. Run the following command. Name `your-key` to fit your needs.

        $ ssh-keygen -f your-key

2. Add a passphrase if you'd like, otherwise skip.

3. Concatenate the key file and copy the output.

        $ cat your-key

4. Open the main file.

        $ vim main.tf

5. Create a resource block for creating a key pair. The second set of quotations and `key_name` can be named to fit your needs and should be the same for best practice. Paste the output from `your-key` into the public key variable.

        resource "aws_key_pair" "key" {
            key_name = "key"
                public_key = "your-public-key-here"
        }

# Opening port 22 to connect via SSH
1. Create a resource block for creating a security group. The second set of quotations and `name` can be named to fit your needs and should be the same for best practice.

        resource "aws_security_group" "allow_ssh" {
            name = "allow_shh"
            description = "Allow SSH"

            ingress {
                from_port = 22
                to_port = 22
                protocol = "tcp"
                cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
            }

            egress {
                from_port = 0
                to_port = 0
                protocol = "-1"
                cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
            }
        }

# Configuring the creation of the EC2 instance
1. Create a resource block for creating an EC2 instance. `name` can be set to fit your needs.  We will be using the Ubuntu 20.04 AMI and the free tier `t2.micro` as well as attach the security group to the instance.  You can reference the keys and the security group as seen below.

        resource "aws_instance" "lab5-1" {
            ami = "ami-0885b1f6bd170450c"
            instance_type = "t2.micro"
            key_name = aws_key_pair.your-key.key_name
            vpc_security_group_ids = ["${aws_security_group.allow_ssh.id}"]
        }

# Launching the EC2 Instance
1. Test the configurations and fix any errors.

        $ terraform plan

2. If no errors, apply the configuration.

        $ terraform apply

You have successfully configured and launched an EC2 instance via Terraform. 