---
layout: "post"
title: "Blog 1"
date: 2020-09-11 19:52:06 -0000
categories: blogs
permalink: /:categories/:month/:day/:year/:title.html
---
## How to Install Oracle VM VirtualBox on Windows 10

# Prerequisites
This item should be downloaded already:
* [Oracle VM VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

# Install Oracle VM VirtualBox
1. Open the .exe file you downloaded from the website above.

2. Click **Next**.

3. These are the features that will be installed with the application. It is recommended to select all the components listed, however, you may uncheck those that you may find unnecessary. When finished, click **Next**.

4. Select or deselect the following that fits your preferences.

5. Click **Next**.

6. It will warn you that installing the network feature will reset your network connection and temporarily disconnect you form the network.  It will take a few seconds, but ensure that resetting the network will not create any issues with anything or anyone else connected to it.  When ready, click **Yes**.

7. Click **Install**.

8. A Windows Security window will pop up and ask if you would like to install the item shown. You may uncheck **Always trust software from "Oracle Corporation** if you wish, otherwise, click **Install**.

9. The installation has now been completed. You may uncheck **Start Oracle VM VirtualBox x.x.x after installation** if you wish, otherwise, click **Finish**.

You have successfully installed Oracle VM VirtualBox. If you would like to configure a machine, click [here]({% link _posts/2020-09-17-blog2.md %}).