---
layout: "post"
title: "Blog 4"
date: 2020-10-02 19:52:06 -0000
categories: blogs
permalink: /:categories/:month/:day/:year/:title.html
---
i worked on lab 2 yesterday, but things didn't go as i thought it would.  i'm still new with docker, so i worked on it for about 6 hours.  i got stuck a couple of times, but several google searches later, i was able to get the build working with the dockerfile.  i wasn't exactly sure how to check if it worked the way it was supposed to, though.  i'm still not sure what the difference between an image and a container are.  the dockerfile was pretty much contains the same commands from lab 1, and i used the COPY command instead of sed since i'm not too confident with sed syntax-wise.  i have all the necessary files to go with it, so i plan on submitting those files along with the dockerfile.

however, the biggest issue i came across was when ubuntu just would not boot up after restarting it.  i use virtualbox so im not sure if that could be the issue.  when starting ubuntu, it would show the ubuntu logo and a little loading icon.  after several seconds, it would just go to a black screen with a blinking underscore at the top left.  i could type something and it would appear at the top left, but then it would disappear after a second or so.  

apparently other people on stackoverflow had the same issue, and changing some settings would fix it for them.  unfortunately, no matter what change i made, it still wouldn't boot.  the most recent post about the issue was about 11 days ago, but there were no responses on it.  im pretty much stuck here and was very frustrated at the time since all my work and files for the lab were on there.  if it won't boot, then i think my only option is to redownload everything and set up docker once again.  tedious, but what else can i do.  thankfully the professor extended the due date, giving us an extra two days.  hopefully nothing like this happens again.